We're so excited for our very first
special guest. He has helped build
modern AI,
then explain modern AI, and then
occasionally rename modern AI.
He actually helped co-found OpenAI right
inside of this office, was the one who
actually got autopilot working at Tesla
back in the day.
And he has a rare gift of making the
most complex technical shifts feel both
accessible and inevitable.
You all know him for having coined the
term vibe coding last year, but just in
the last few months he said something
even more startling,
that he's never felt more behind as a
programmer.
That's where we're starting today. Thank
you, Andre, for joining us. Yeah, hello.
I'm excited to be here and to kick us
off.
Okay, so just a couple months ago you
said that you've never felt more behind
as a programmer. That's startling to
hear from you of all people. Um can you
help us unpack that? Was that feeling
exhilarating or unsettling?
Uh yeah, mixture of both for sure.
Uh well, first of all, um
I guess like as many of you I've been
using agentic tools like Alpha code
adjacent things uh for a while, maybe
over the last year as it came out. And
it was very good at, you know, chunks of
code. And sometimes it would mess up and
you have to edit them, and it was kind
of helpful. And then I would say
December was this uh clear point where
for me uh I was on a break, so I had a
bit more time. I think many other people
were similar. And uh I just start to
notice that with the latest models uh
the chunks just came out fine. And then
I kept asking for more, and just came
out fine. And then I can't remember the
last time I corrected it. And then I was
I just uh you know, trusted the system
more and more. And then I was vibe
coding.
>> [laughter]
>> And uh so it was kind of a
I do think that it was a very stark
transition. I think that a lot of people
actually I tried to I tried to stress
this on uh Twitter and or X because I
think a lot of people experienced AI uh
last year as ChatGPT adjacent thing, uh
but you really had to look again, and
you had to look as of December uh
because things have changed
fundamentally and uh especially on this
like agentic coherent workflow that
really started to actually work. Um and
so I would say that um
yeah, it was just that realization that
really uh
had me um go down the whole rabbit hole
of just, you know, infinity side
project. Uh my side projects folder is
like extremely full with lots of random
things and uh just I've been coding all
the time. Uh so uh yeah, that kind of
happened in December, I would say.
And I was looking at the repercussions
of that since.
Um you've talked a lot about this idea
of LLMs as a new computer. Um that it
isn't just better software, it's a whole
new computing paradigm. And um software
1.0 was explicit rules, software 2.0 was
learned weights, software 3.0 is this.
Um if that's actually true, what does a
team build differently the day they
actually believe this?
Right. So uh yeah, exactly. So software
1.0 I'm writing code, software 2.0 I'm
actually programming by creating data
sets and training uh training neural
networks. So the programming is kind of
like arranging data sets and maybe some
objectives and neural network
architectures. And then what happened is
that basically if you train one of these
GPT models or LLMs on a sufficiently
large set of tasks implicit basically
implicitly because by training on the
internet you have to multitask all the
things that are in the data set. Uh
these actually become kind of like a
programmable computer in a certain
sense. So software 3.0 is kind of about
uh you know, your programming now turns
to prompting and what's in the context
window is your lever over the
interpreter that is the LLM that is kind
of like interpreting your context and uh
performing computation in the digital
digital information space. So I guess um
yeah, that's kind of the transition and
I think there's a few examples of that
really drove it home for me and maybe
that might be instructive. Uh so for
example, when you when Open Claw came
out
when you want to install Open Claw, you
would expect that normally this is a
bash bash script like a shell script.
So, run the shell script to run uh to
install OpenClaw.
Um but the thing is that in order to
target lots of different platforms and
lots of different types of computers you
might run an OpenClaw, uh this these
shell scripts usually ballooned up and
become extremely complex. But the thing
is you're still stuck in a software 1.0
universe of wanting to write the code.
And actually the OpenClaw installation
is a is a copy-paste of a bunch of text
that you're supposed to give to your
agent. Uh so, basically it's it's a
little skill of uh you know, copy-paste
this and give it to your agent and it
will install OpenClaw. And the reason
this is a lot more powerful is you're
working now in the software 3.0 paradigm
where you don't have to precisely uh
spell out, you know, all the individual
details of that setup. The agent has its
own intelligence that it packages up and
then it kind of like follows the
instructions and it looks at your
environment, your computer, and it kind
of like performs intelligent actions to
make things work and debugs things in
the loop. And it's just like so much
more powerful, right? So, I think that's
a very different kind of like way of
thinking about it. It's just like, what
is the piece of text to copy-paste to
your agent? That's the programming
paradigm now. I think one more maybe uh
example that comes to mind that is even
more extreme than that is when I was
building um MenuGen. So, MenuGen is this
idea where
you um you come to a restaurant, they
give you a menu, there's no pictures
usually, so I don't know what any of
these things are. Uh usually I like 30%
of the things I don't have no idea what
they are, 50%. So, I wanted to take a
photo of the restaurant menu and to get
pictures of what those things might look
like in a generic sense.
And so, I built I built coded this app
that basically lets you upload a photo
and it does all this stuff and it runs
on Vercel and uh it basically re-renders
the menu and it gives you like all the
items and it gives you a picture that it
uses an image um you know, generator uh
for to basically OCR all the different
titles, uh use the image generator to
get pictures of them and then shows it
to you.
And then I saw the software 3.0 version
of this, which is which blew my mind,
which is literally just take your photo,
give it to Gemini, and say use Nano
Banana to overlay the the things onto
the menu." Uh Uh
and Nana Banana basically returned an
image that is exactly the picture of the
menu that I took, but it actually put
into the pixels, it rendered the
different things in the menu.
And this blew my mind because
actually all of my menu gen is spurious.
It's working in the old paradigm that
app shouldn't exist. Uh and uh yeah, the
software 3.0 paradigm is a lot more kind
of raw. It just um
your neural network is doing more and
more of the work, and your prompt or
context is just the image, and the
output is an image, and there's no need
to have any of the app in between.
Um so, I think that people have to kind
of like reframe,
you know, not to work in the existing
paradigm of what things existed and just
think about it as a speed up of what
exists.
It's actually like new things are
available now.
And going back to your programming
question, it's not even I think that's
also an example of working in the in the
old mindset because it's not just about
programming and programming becoming
faster. This is more general information
processing that is automatable now. So,
um it's not just even about code. So,
previous code worked over a kind of like
structured data, right? And uh you write
code over structured data. But like for
example with my LLM knowledge bases
project, um
uh basically you get LLMs to create
wikis for your organization or for you
in person, etc. This is not even a
program. This is not something that
could exist before because there was no
there was no code that would create a
knowledge base based on a bunch of
facts. But now you can just take these
documents and
uh
basically uh recompile them in a
different way, and uh reorder them, and
create something that is uh new and
interesting uh as a reframing of the
data. And so, these are new things that
weren't possible. Uh and so, I think
this is uh something that I keep trying
to get back to as to not only what can
we do that existed that is faster now,
but I think there's new opportunities of
just things that couldn't be possible
before. And I almost think that that's
more exciting.
I love the menu gen progression and
dichotomy that you laid out, and I think
even I'm sure many folks here followed
your own progression of programming from
last October to early January, February
this year. If you extrapolate that
further, what is the 2026 equivalent
for building websites in the '90s,
building mobile apps in the 2010s,
building SaaS in the last cloud era?
What will look completely obvious in
hindsight that is still mostly unbuilt
today?
Um
>> [clears throat]
>> Well, going with the example of MenuGen,
I guess. So, a lot of this code
shouldn't exist and it's just neural
networks doing most of the work.
Um I do think that the extrapolation
looks very weird because you could
basically imagine
I don't think I Yeah, so you could
imagine completely neural computers in a
certain sense. Uh you feed a raw videos
like imagine a device that takes raw
videos or audio into basically what's a
neural net and uses diffusion to render
a UI that is kind of like, you know,
unique for that moment in a certain
sense. And um
I kind of feel like in the early days of
computing actually, people were a little
bit confused as to whether computers
would look like calculators or computers
would look like neural nets. And in '50s
and '60s, it was not really obvious
which way would go. And of course, we
went down the calculator path and ended
up building classical computing and then
neural nets are currently running
virtualized on existing computers. But
you could imagine I think that a lot of
this will flip and that the neural net
becomes kind of like the host process.
And the CPUs become kind of like the
co-processor. So, we saw the diagram of,
you know, intelligence compute is going
to neural networks is going to take over
and become the dominant spend of flops.
So, you could imagine something really
weird and foreign when where neural nets
are doing most of the heavy lifting,
they're using tool use as just like, you
know,
historical appendage for some kinds of
like deterministic tasks. But what's
really running the show is these
neural nets that are networked in a
certain way. Um so, you can imagine
something extremely foreign as the
extrapolation, but I think we're going
to probably get there sort of piece by
piece.
And I don't Yeah, I don't that that
progression is TBD, I would say.
>> [snorts]
>> I'd love to talk a little bit about um,
uh, this concept of verifiability. The
fact that AI will automate faster and
more easily domains where the output can
be verified.
Um, if that framework is right, what
work is about to move much faster than
people realize? And what professions do
we have that people actually think are
safe, but they're actually highly
verifiable?
Uh, yes, so I I spent uh, some time
writing about verifiability and um,
basically like traditional computers can
easily automate what you can specify
in code. And uh,
kind of this latest round of LLMs can
easily automate what you can uh, verify
in a certain in a certain sense. Uh,
because the way this works is that when
frontier labs are training these LLMs,
these are giant reinforcement learning
environments. So, they are given a
verification rewards. And then because
of the way that these models are
trained, they end up basically uh,
progressing and creating these like
jagged entities that really peak in
capability in kind of like verifiable
domains like math and code and adjacent.
And kind of like stagnate and are a
little bit um,
you know, rougher on the edges when uh,
things are not kind of like in that in
that space. So, I think the reason I
wrote about verifiability is I'm trying
to understand why these things are so
jagged.
Um, and some of it has to do with how
the labs train the models, but I think
some of it also has to do with um, the
focus of the labs and what they happen
to put into the data distribution. Uh,
because some things basically are
significantly more valuable in economy
and end up creating more environments
because the labs wanted to work in those
settings. So, I think code is a good
example of that. There's probably lots
of verifiable environments they could
think about that happen not to make it
into the mix because they're just not
that useful to have the capability
around.
Um,
but I think to me the big um, I guess
like the big mystery is uh,
the favorite example for a while was
that how many letters are are in a
strawberry? And the models would
famously get this wrong and it's an
example of jaggedness. Uh, the models
now patch this, I think, but the new one
is I want to go to a car wash to wash my
car, and it's 50 m away, should I drive
or should I walk? And state-of-the-art
models today will tell you to walk
because it's so close. How is it
possible that state-of-the-art Opus 4.7
will simultaneously refactor a 100,000
like
>> [laughter]
>> code base a line code base or find
zero-day vulnerabilities and yet tells
me to walk to this car wash? This is
insane. And to whatever extent these
models are remain jagged, it's an
indication that number one, maybe
something slightly off.
Or
number two, you need to actually
be in the loop a little bit and you need
to treat them as tools and you do have
to kind of stay in touch with what
they're doing. And so I think all of my
writing, long story short, about
verifiability is just trying to
understand um
why these things are jagged, is there
any pattern to it? And I think it's a
some kind of combination of verifiable
plus labs care. Maybe one more anecdote
that is instructive
is
from GPT-3.5 to GPT-4, people noticed
that chess improved a lot and I think a
lot of people thought, oh well, it's
just a progression of the capabilities.
But actually it's it's more that I think
this is public information, I think I
saw it on the internet. Um a huge amount
of like
data of chess made it into the
pre-training set.
And just because it's in the data
distribution, basically the model
improved a lot more than it would just
by default.
So someone at OpenAI decided to add this
data and now you have a capability that
just peaked a lot more. And so that's
why I think I'm stressing this
dimension of it as we are slightly at
the mercy of whatever the labs are
doing, whatever they happen to put into
the mix and you have to actually explore
this thing that they give you that has
no manual and it works in certain
settings but maybe not in some settings
and you have to kind of explore it a
little bit and if you're in the circuits
that were part of the RL, you fly and if
you're in the circuits that are out of
the data distribution, you're going to
struggle and you have to kind of figure
out which which circuits you're in in
your application. And if you and if
you're not in the circuits, then you
have to really look at fine-tuning and
doing some of your own work because it's
not going to necessarily come out of the
LLM out of the box.
I'd love to come back to the concept of
jagged intelligence in a little bit. Um
if you were a founder today and thinking
about building a company, you are trying
to solve a problem that you think is
tractable, something that uh is a domain
that is verifiable, but you look around
and you think, "Oh my gosh, well the
labs have really really started uh
got getting to escape velocity and the
ones that seem most obvious, math,
coding, and others." What would your
advice be to to the founders in the
audience?
Um
So, I think maybe that comes to the
previous question of I do think that
verifiability because it um
Let me think. So, verifiability makes
something tractable in the current
paradigm because you can throw huge
amount of RL at it. Um
So, maybe one way to see it is that uh
that remains true even if the labs are
not focusing on it directly. So, if you
are in a a verifiable setting where you
could create these RL environments or
examples, then that actually sets you up
to potentially do your own fine-tuning
and you might benefit from that. But,
that is fundamentally technology that
just works. You can pull a lever. If you
have huge amount of diverse data sets of
RL environments, etc., uh you can use
your favorite fine-tuning framework and
um and uh
pull the lever and get something that
actually uh works pretty well. So, um
I don't know what the examples of this
might be. Um
but I do think there are some very
valuable uh reinforcement learning
environments that people could think of
that I think are not part of the
Yeah, I don't want to give away the
answer, but there is one domain that I
think is very uh Oh, okay. Sorry. I
don't mean to vague post on on the
stage, but
uh there are some examples of this. On
the flip side, what do you think still
feels automatable only from a distance?
I do think that ultimately almost
everything can be made uh verifiable to
some extent, some things easier than
others. Um
because even for like things that are
like writing or so on, you can imagine
having a council of LLM judges and
probably get get to some get something
reasonable out of the
from from this kind of an approach. So,
it's more about what's easy or hard.
Um
So, I I do think that ultimately um
Uh yeah, I think uh
Everything.
>> [laughter]
>> Everything is automatable.
Amazing. Okay. Um so, last year you
coined the term vibe coding and today
we're in a world that feels a little bit
more serious, more agentic engineering.
What do you think is the difference
between the two and what would you
actually call what we're in today?
Uh yeah, so I would say vibe coding is
about raising the floor for everyone in
terms of what they can do in software.
So, the floor rises, everyone can vibe
code anything, and that's amazing,
incredible. But then I would say agentic
engineering is about preserving the
quality bar of what existed before in
professional software. So, you're not
allowed to introduce uh vulnerabilities
due to vibe coding. Um you are um you're
still responsible for your software just
as before, but can you go faster? And
spoiler is you can, but how do you how
do you do that properly? And so, to me
agentic engineering when I I call it
that because I do think it's kind of
like an engineering discipline. You have
these agents which are these like spiky
entities, they're a bit fallible, a
little bit stochastic, but they are
extremely powerful. And it's how do you
how do you coordinate them to go faster
without sacrificing your quality bar?
And doing that well and correctly um is
the the realm of agentic engineering.
Um so, I kind of see them as as
different. Like one is about maybe
raising the raising the floor, and the
other is about um you know,
extrapolating. And what I'm seeing I
think is
there is a very high ceiling on agent
engineer uh capability. And you know,
people used to talk about the 10x
engineer previously. I think that this
is uh magnified a lot more. Uh 10x is uh
is not uh the speed up you gain. Um
and I think uh it does seem to me like
people who are very good at this um
peak a lot more than 10x uh from from my
perspective right now. I really like
that framing. Um
one thing that when Sam Altman came to
AI sent last year, one memorable thing
he said was that people of different
generations use ChatGPT differently. So,
if you're in your 30s, you use it as a
Google search replacement, but if you're
in your teens, ChatGPT is your gateway
to the internet. What is the parallel
here in coding today? If we were to
watch two people code using open claw,
cloud code, codex, one you'd consider
mediocre at it and one you would
consider fully AI native, how would you
describe the difference?
I [clears throat] mean, I think it's
just trying to get the most out of the
tools that are available, utilizing all
of their features, investing into your
own
kind of setup. So, just like previously,
all the engineers are used to basically
getting the most out of the tools you
use, either it's Vim or VS Code or now
it's you know, cloud code or codex or so
on. So, um
just investing into your setup
and
utilizing a lot of the, you know, tools
that are available to you.
Um and I think it just kind of looks
like that. I do think that
maybe related thought is
um
a lot of people are maybe hiring
for this, right? Because they want to
hire strong agentic engineers. I do
think that
what I'm seeing is that
the, you know, most people are still not
refactored their
their hiring process for agentic
engineer capability, right? Like if
you're giving out puzzles to solve, then
this is still the old paradigm. I would
say that hiring have to has to look like
give me a really big project and see
someone implement that big project. Like
let's write, say a Twitter clone
for agents and then make it really good,
make it really secure, and then have
some agents simulate some activity on
this Twitter. And then I'm going to use
codex 5.4 x high to try to break your
break your
this website that you deployed and
they're going to try to basically break
it and they should not be able to break
it. And so maybe it looks like that,
right? And so yeah, watching people in
that that setting and building some
bigger projects and
utilize utilizing the tooling is maybe
what I would look at for the most part.
And as agents do more, what human skill
do you think becomes more valuable, not
less?
Also, yeah, it's a good question. I
think um
Well, right now the answer is that the
agents are catalog these internal
entities, right? So
it's remarkable
um
you basically still have to be in charge
of the aesthetics, the the judgment, the
taste, and a little bit of oversight.
And maybe one one of my favorite
examples of like the the weirdness of
agents is um
for menu gen, you sign up with a Google
Google account, but you
purchase credits using a Stripe account
and both of them have email addresses.
And my agent actually tries to basically
um
like when you purchase credits, it
assigned it using the email address from
Stripe to the Google email address. Like
there wasn't a persistent user ID that
that for people. It was trying to match
up the email addresses, but you could
use different email address for your
Stripe and your Google and basically
would not associate the funds. And so
this is the kind of thing that these
agents still will make mistakes about.
It's like why would you use email
addresses to try to cross-correlate the
funds? They can be arbitrary. You can
use different emails, etc. Like this is
such a weird thing to do. So I think
people have to be in charge of this
spec, this plan, and
actually don't even like the plan mode.
I would
I mean, obviously it's very useful, but
I think there's something more general
here where you have to work with your
agent to design a spec that is very
detailed and maybe it's a maybe
basically the docs and then get the
agents to write them. And you're in
charge of the oversight and the
top-level categories, but the agents are
doing a lot of the under the hood. And
so I think you're not caring about some
of the details. So as an example also
with um, a race or tensors in neural
networks, um, there's a ton of details
between PyTorch and NumPy and all the
different like pandas and so on for all
the different little API details. And
I'll I already forgot about the keep
dims versus keep dim or whether it's dim
or axis or reshape or permute or
transpose. I don't remember this stuff
anymore, right? Because you don't have
to. This is the kind of details that are
handled by the intern because they have
very good recall. And but you still have
to know for example that um, you know,
there's underlying tensor, there's an
underlying view and then you can view of
the same storage or you can have
different storage which will be less
efficient. As we still have to have an
understanding of what this stuff is
doing and some of the fundamentals
um,
so that you're not copying memory around
unnecessarily and so on. But uh, the
details of the APIs are now handed off.
So it um, you're in charge of the taste,
the engineering, the design uh, and that
it makes sense and that you're asking
for the right things and that you're
saying that okay, that these have to be
unique user IDs that we're going to tie
everything to. Um,
and so you're doing some of the
design and development and the engineers
are doing the fill in the blanks. And
that's currently kind of like where we
are and I think that's what everyone of
course is seeing I think right now. Do
you think there's a chance that this um,
taste and judgment matters less over
time or will the ceiling just keep
rising?
Um, yeah, it's a good question. I would
say
um,
I mean I'm hoping that the that it
improves. I think probably the reason it
doesn't improve right now is again it's
not part of the RL. There's probably no
aesthetics cost or reward or it's not
good enough or something like that. Um,
I do think that when you actually look
at the code, sometimes I get a little
bit of a heart attack because it's not
like super amazing code necessarily all
the time and it's very bloated and
there's a lot of copy-paste and there's
awkward abstractions that are brittle
and like it works but it's just really
gross. Um,
and I do I do hope that this can improve
in future models. Um, a good example
also is this uh, you know, the micro GPT
project uh, which where I was trying to
simplify uh LLM training to be as simple
as possible. The models hate this. They
can't do it. I tried to I keep I kept
trying to prompt an LLM to simplify
more, simplify more, and it just can't
You feel like you're outside of the RL
circuits. It feels like it you're
obviously, you know, you're pulling
teeth. It's not like light speed.
So, I think um
I do think that people are still remain
in charge of this, but I do think that
there's nothing fundamental again that's
preventing it. It's just the labs
haven't done it yet almost.
Yeah.
So, I'd love to come back to this idea
of uh
jagged forms of intelligence. You wrote
a little bit about this with uh very
thought-provoking piece around animals
versus ghosts.
Um and the idea is that we're not
building animals. We are summoning
ghosts. Um and these are jagged forms of
intelligence that are shaped by data and
reward functions, but not by intrinsic
motivation or fun or curiosity or
empowerment, uh
things that kind of came about via
evolution.
Um why does that framing matter? And
what does it actually change about how
you build and deploy and evaluate or
even trust them?
Uh
yes, so
Yeah, I think the reason I wrote about
this is because I'm trying to wrap my
head around what these things are,
right? Because if you have a good model
of what they are or are not, then you're
going to be more competent at uh using
them. Um and I do think that um
I don't know if it has I'm not sure if
it actually has like real power.
>> [laughter]
>> I think it's a little bit of
philosophizing.
But I do think that um
I think it's just um
coming to terms with the fact that these
things are not, you know, animal
intelligences. Like if you yell at them,
they're not going to work better or or
worse or it doesn't have any impact. Um
and uh
it's all just kind of like these
statistical simulation circuits where
the the substrate is pre-training, so
like statistics. And then but then
there's RL bolting on top, so
it kind of like increases the
disadvantages and um maybe it's just
kind of like a mindset of what I'm
coming into or what's likely to work or
not likely to work or how to modify it,
but I don't actually I don't know that I
have like here are the five obvious
outcomes of how to make your system
better. It's more just being suspicious
of it and um
figuring out over time.
That's where it starts. Okay, so you are
so deep in working with agents that
don't just chat. They have
real permissions. They have local
contacts. They actually take action on
your your behalf. What does the world
look like when we all start to live in
that world?
Yeah, I think
I think a lot of people probably here
are excited about what this agentic
you know, native agentic environment
looks like and everything has to be
rewritten. Everything is still
fundamentally written for humans and has
to be moved around. I still use most of
the time when I use different frameworks
or libraries or things like that. They
still have docs that are fundamentally
written for humans. This is my favorite
pet peeve. Like I don't Why are people
still telling me what to do? Like I
don't want to do anything. What is the
thing I should copy paste to my agent?
>> [laughter]
>> So it's just every time I'm told, you
know, go to this URL or something like
that. It's just like ah.
>> [laughter]
>> You know.
>> [snorts]
>> So um
everyone is I think excited about how do
we decompose the workloads that need to
happen into fundamentally sensors over
the world, actuators over the world. How
do we make it agent native? Basically
describe it to agents first. Um and then
I have a lot of automation around
you know, the
Yeah, around data structures that are
very legible to the LLMs.
So I think
yeah, I'm hoping that there's a lot of
agent first infrastructure out there and
that you know, for MenuGen famously when
I wrote the not I'm not sure how
famously, but when I wrote the blog post
about MenuGen [laughter]
a lot of the work a lot of the trouble
was not even writing the code for
MenuGen. It was deploying it on Vercel
because I had to work with all these
different services and I just string
them up and I just go to their settings
and the menus, and
you know, configure my DNS, and it was
just so annoying. And so, that's a good
example of I would hope that MenuGen
that I could give a prompt to an LLM,
build MenuGen, and then I didn't have to
touch anything, and it's deployed in
that same way on the internet. I think
that would be a good kind of a test for
whether or not a lot of our
infrastructure is becoming more and more
agent native. And then ultimately, I
would say
yeah, I I do think we're going towards a
world where there's agent representation
for people and for organizations, and um
you know, I'll have my agent talk to
your agent to figure out some of the
details of our meetings or things like
that. So,
>> [laughter]
>> um I do think that that's roughly where
things are going, but um yeah, I think
everyone here is excited about that. I
really like the visual analogy of
sensors and actuators. I actually hadn't
thought of that. That's super
interesting.
>> Right. Um okay, I think we have to end
on a question about education, um
because you are probably one of the very
best in the world at making complex
technical concepts simple and deeply
thoughtful about how we design education
around it. Um
what still remains worth learning deeply
when intelligence gets cheap as we move
into the next era of AI?
Yeah.
Uh there was a tweet that blew my mind
recently, and I keep thinking about it
like every other day. It was something
along the lines of um
you can outsource your thinking, but you
can't outsource your understanding.
And um I think that's really nicely put.
I so
yeah, because I still I'm still part of
the system, and I still I still have to
somehow information still has to make it
into my brain, and I feel like I'm
becoming a bottleneck of just even
knowing what we're trying to build, why
is it worth doing, uh how do I direct
you know, how do I direct my my agents,
and so on. So,
I do still think that ultimately
something has to direct the thinking and
the processing, and so on. And um
that's still kind of fundamentally
constrained somehow by understanding.
And this is one reason I also was very
excited about all the all the knowledge
bases because I feel like that's that's
a way for me to process information. And
anytime I see a different projection
onto information, I always like feel
like I gain insight. So, it's really
just
a lot of prompts for me to do synthetic
data generation kind of over over some
fixed data. Uh so, I I really enjoy uh
whenever I read an article, I have my uh
you know, my wiki that's being built up
from these articles. And I love asking
questions about things or um and I I
think that ultimately these are tools to
enhance understanding in a certain way.
And this is still kind of like a bit of
a bottleneck because then you can't
direct the
uh you you can't be a good director if
you still
uh cuz the LLMs certainly don't excel at
understanding. You still are uniquely in
charge of that. So,
uh yeah, I think uh tools to that effect
I think are incredibly interesting and
exciting. I'm excited to be back here in
a couple years and to see if we've been
fully automated out of the loop and they
actually take care of understanding as
well. Uh thank you so much for joining
us, Andre. We really appreciate it.
[applause]